i think it's important just to let
everyone know that there's a huge
disclaimer here
i think both ken and myself were
extremely data driven and we really uh
uh trust and we like to see a lot of
data before we
make any decisions before we have any
conversations with the teams
so of course most of my uh uh
favorite business quotes are related to
to data and numbers
trust but verify i think that's a
russian uh uh proverb there's uh if you
can't measure it you can't manage it
which uh it's it's an extremely famous
one and then there's one from eric which
i really like which is
we we trust everyone and god we trust
but other all others should bring data
and i think that's kind of a part of
google's dna we are a very data
centric company and so is canon myself
so i think that's why we've been able to
have so much fun over the past um couple
of years and hopefully throughout the
next couple of slides when we're zooming
into each of the v's you'll appreciate
how data driven we have been over the
last couple of of years at waze
sharing a little bit of context before
we begin and hopefully context will
allow everyone to understand a little
bit about what we do and a little bit
about the experiences we want to share
with everyone first of all we are here
to share experiences we want to share
our wins but also we want to share a
couple of things we didn't do very well
and i think we learn a lot from from
some of these uh
experiences so we want to be very honest
and really just share with all of you
today
there's something that uh
is very interesting about how i joined
uh waze so waze is a google company i
had been working for google for two
years and then i joined google i joined
waze ads smb in brazil so i'm brazilian
i joined our brazil team i was employee
number one
it was it was so exciting to grow a team
and start a team from scratch i was the
employee number one i had uh and i still
have an amazing director who was
extremely uh open to my suggestions and
how we were supposed to build a team so
i truly had a blank piece of paper in
terms of setting up a go to market
strategy for brazil we grew the team
pretty quickly and after two years we
opened a mexico team we opened a team
that was based in multiple countries
managing uh colombia argentina chile and
peru
and at the end of the day we are a
smb team
selling waze ads
to our
advertisers we engage with both brands
directly and also with agencies so
that's a little bit of context of what
our
sales
machine
looks like and
the way i define smb is we have a small
business go to market which is very
different to our mid market go to market
i think a lot of what ken and i have
been doing over the last two years is
understanding how should we identify
these very different market
opportunities and how should we create
teams to try to deliver as much value to
our partners but also to the company so
how can we grow as quickly as possible
uh by creating very different teams with
very different go to markets to address
these opportunities and before we start
talking a little bit about the content
and a little bit about the v's ken do
you want to say hi and present yourself
to everyone
yeah hello everyone i'm kendra like fair
mentioned uh i have been um
at waze ads for about two and a half
years now uh i was at google prior to
that with google cloud um but in my time
at waze ads i just want to reiterate
what
uh fair had to say we have grown
significantly i i started as a seller
and supported agency business
at waze ads
and now i am actually in the sales
enablement role so
what that means is my day to day is
supporting sellers and everything that
they need to get deals across the line
uh whether that be
i don't know pitching
value proposition objection handling etc
uh or even the the nitty-gritty of
analyzing the data uh and coming through
with results that actually optimize our
machine um similar to what fair
mentioned yeah just for some context
like the north american business has
grown significantly over the past two
years that i've been a part of it um i
remember i was you know on a very very
small sales team and now we are um what
almost double uh the size so exciting
stuff that we that we've been doing and
we hope that uh yeah what we're going to
discuss today can be you know learnings
um you know we're going to share good
and bad we're going to share everything
hopefully to just be honest and upfront
about what has worked uh for our our
business
um
so so yeah let's dive into that so
essentially the
uh number one question i think that we
all uh you know ask ourselves uh in our
day day-to-day is what truly makes a
sales organization grow um you know in
ways ads we ask this i think every
single day especially being a part of
the smb business um you know we're a
little bit scrappier we are trying to
figure out how to close deals the
quickest how to perfect our pitches how
to make sure that we're growing our
organization
and so i wanted to take a step back here
and just relay the agenda to you all um
so the the primary goal after leaving
this meeting hopefully uh is that you
just better understand how we think
about uh growing our sales organization
and um you know the kind of pillars that
we have bucketed um over here so
our philosophy throughout the years um
has to kind of keep in mind four pillars
um when we think about growing our sales
organization
so we will review the four pillars today
and we tried to make it easy and simple
by remembering that they all start with
v so these are the four v's that we have
come up with that have helped our sales
organization grow
as you can see it is value
and variety which fair will be reviewing
with us momentarily
and then thinking about volume and
velocity which i will be reviewing with
you as well but again open discussion we
want to just share what's worked what's
not worked uh and why focusing on these
four v's is actually helping our
business grow scale um and and be better
so fair i think that value means uh you
know like worth i think that's like the
technical definition
but can you tell us more about why value
is important
of course but before i do that ken i
think i have a fun idea should we run a
poll
and try to ask everyone
what which of these v's they think is is
is more important for their business so
all of these are
extremely important but
if if everyone could just kind of use
the pull feature and just choose one of
these v's to show us
uh
which is the most important one in your
opinion
and then after we zoom into all of the
v's we're going to ask the same question
again and we'll see if if anyone changed
their minds so i can see
in real time
we have
over 50 percent saying that value is the
most important one and also velocity
that's surprising for me
value and volume are the two that
normally are the most are considered the
most important one so that's that's
interesting
let's just wait for a couple more
seconds
great so i think that's it so so i just
need to write this down to actually
remember in a couple of minutes time
because we're going to ask the same
question again so
value
and uh 29 velocity
and then 13
sorry so it's 50
value
32 velocity
and then we have uh third and fourth
place both um
both the law of volume and variety so
we'll compare with a couple of minutes
time when we finish
explaining a couple of the wins and the
and the challenges we had with these and
we'll see if there are any changes
so going back to value
i think when we define value it's it's a
relatively easier definition
uh i think at waze and most companies
will define value as the
uh the deal
size or the deal amount of whatever
contract they're closing we're selling
ads so value can also be defined as a
30-day value
some campaigns might be a 30-day flight
of campaign so value can can have a
30-day
amount hopefully if we do a good job
that flight will become recurring
revenue so we also started to
assess what is the six-month value or
the one-year value of our of our
accounts and our clients so value it's
it's it's
not too hard to define but i think
depending on your industry you'll want
to kind of use a different time stamp to
talk about betting
so how do we try to maximize for value
and at the end of the day we're going to
share 12 questions so each of the v's
we're going to share three questions
that will hopefully guide all of you to
kind of just
help you ask
uh some of these questions thinking
about your own businesses so it doesn't
really matter if you're selling
a b2b software if you're selling media
it doesn't really matter i think we try
to
identify and list questions that are
sales centric and not necessarily
related to our business so the first
question i have is are you considering
both your wins and also your lost deals
and this is interesting because
when i launched the brazilian operation
i was
extremely uh uh
concerned and i was really wanting to
have a lot of information about all of
the accounts we were winning and i
wanted to know what verticals they were
in and and truly what was the size of
the value of the deal that we were able
to to win and then i was comparing
between different regions of the country
and i was i was kind of slicing and
dicing the data but i was only looking
at the accounts we actually won to try
to understand how can we scale value
even further
and then a couple of months after uh
just looking at the accounts we were
winning
that wasn't really helping me to
maximize for value
what really helped me maximize for value
was when i started looking at why
weren't we winning more accounts and
really zooming into the reasons why we
were losing accounts and if you just can
show the diagram ken it
i'm sure most of you have actually seen
this this in other presentations and
it's now very famous but this is back
in in in the second world war when there
was when if you look at the plane to the
left people were trying to look at at
the planes that were actually coming
back
uh uh from from a day at war and the
planes that were coming back they were
considered as the planes that succeeded
right they weren't shot down so all the
red little dots mark the bullet holes
so they were actually looking at the the
winds
right the closed deals and they were
trying to kind of zoom in and trying to
make sure that the plane was optimized
and they were trying to reinforce all of
the areas of the plane that had the
bullet holes
and that seemed very smart at the time
but very quickly they realize that they
should actually start thinking about
what about the planes that aren't coming
back
and actually
all of the different parts of the plane
that don't have the bullet holes those
are the parts of the plane if you look
at
the airplane to the right in in purple
those are the parts of a plane that are
extremely vulnerable and fragile so it's
the motor and it's i think close to the
the the the uh the part of the plane
that has all the all the gas inside so
and then they started optimizing and
they started making sure they were
protecting more uh uh where the plane
didn't have bullet holes and that's what
we started doing with the operation like
why are we losing these deals how can we
make sure that we're
winning deals and those deals are
helping us increase our average value so
that was my my first big insight i had
like spend a lot of time understanding
with your clients and your with your
teams why you aren't winning your deals
we normally spend a lot of time and we
value the sellers that are selling but
it's also equally important in my case
in brazil was even more important for me
to understand why we weren't winning and
i started to understand there was a
pricing issue we had issues in terms of
the profiles of the sellers we had uh
brought to the team so a lot of a lot of
great insights there
second question i want to share with all
of you regarding value is what is your
average deal size pitched versus closed
it's a huge mistake and this is almost
therapy session for me ken i'm talking
about all my mistakes but i was
very focused in looking at the
average value of closed deals but i
wasn't necessarily looking at the
average pitched amount
so
if our if our teams were closing an
average of ten thousand dollars a month
that was the number i was looking at and
i wanted to optimize for that number so
we were training the teams we wanted
them to pitch bigger but we weren't
doing a good job of actually tracking
their pitched amount
so we wanted them to close bigger deals
but they weren't pitching bigger amounts
as soon as we started looking at the
size of the pitched amounts we could go
and actually train different teams talk
to the different sellers and make sure
they were pitching bigger and then if
they were pitching bigger if we were
doing a good job of showing the value of
our product then the closed amount was
also increasing
and then the third question i
i suggest everyone to just kind of
constantly ask themselves is are you
are you making it interesting for your
client are you helping them want to
invest more with your companies and at
waze we have a lot of different uh
services and and different insights we
can provide to our clients so i think we
spent a lot of time thinking about our
slas
our our service level agreements and
then depending on the the the level of
investment the commitment of our clients
to our platform we are willing to commit
our time and our limited resources back
to our partnership with them and that
was really effective in us driving the
value of these accounts
so
take a look at your lost deals take a
look at the amount of of of of
or the average pitched amount of your
teams and last but not least really have
a very clear sla you're offering to your
clients and their understanding if they
are
investing more with you is that is that
a benefit for them are there benefits
involved
so that's the first v
the second v and we start moving a
little faster is variety that's that's a
harder definition can do do you think
you know what that means or
at least for ways what would that mean
in your opinion
i would think either different types of
like pitches or different types of
clients
correct so we've been working together
for it for quite some time so you're
absolutely correct so for waze
uh variety means
what different team is selling more or
less
and we have teams that are focused in
selling into agencies
if teams that are focused uh in in what
we call
direct directly towards brands
but at the end of the day the number one
question i've been asking myself very
very intensely and very frequently over
the last couple of months is are do we
have sellers that really understand
their different industries
and it's it's
i am a huge sponsor of having industry
experts in a sales team google does that
very well at waze we've been we've been
starting to do that and we're doing it
even more and there there's a lot of
benefits of having a seller that knows
the industry knows what what vocab he
should be using with the client he knows
what the pain points are i'm seeing a
lot of value there
and the question for all of you is are
you comfortable that your sellers are
actually industry experts are they aware
of the trends would you be comfortable
for them to actually be thrown into a
conversation with a cmo or whoever your
your important stakeholder is and talk
about industry trends and that's
something that ken has been spending a
lot of time training the team and
sending a lot of content so our sellers
are are truly experts in their
industries second question is
do you have a go to market for the
different market opportunities so in the
beginning we had this huge team and the
team was trying to sell to very small
accounts to large accounts and the
average was always like
mediocre mediocre in the sense that it
was average right so most of our kpis
they were average
and that wasn't very helpful so we
started to just better understand the
different opportunities in the market
the different verticals different
company sizes and then we really just
tried testing with different go to
markets so we have different sales orgs
different roles different
responsibilities we have different uh
levels of seniority depending on the
different market opportunity that we're
trying to monetize on and now we have
very clear kpis that are showing us
we're doing a much better job to create
a specific go to market for each of
these market opportunities
and then the last one which which
hopefully will be
helpful for all of you is what about
your your your compensation uh uh
strategy and your compensation tactics
that you have in place at the moment are
they are they motivating your your team
to actually think about a variety of of
types of deals
are they are they being uh uh
compensated to sell into the right
verticals are they being compensated to
sell uh deals that will last longer so
we've been learning a lot about
compensation it's
it's one of those things where you try
to invest a lot of time there and
suddenly you have like a 20-page
contract which is your compensation
strategy and then you've
you probably did something uh wrong
there because nobody really understands
what the compensation looks like so you
have to simplify a little bit but we
learned a lot there but at the end of
the day do you feel comfortable that
your sales team is being compensated
uh to act and to behave exactly the way
you would like them to and we had huge
learnings there
two v's to go we're moving very fast i
know v uh ken do you want to talk about
our third uh v this is this is an easy
one to define right how would you define
volume
i was gonna say how would you define it
that's so easy i mean for weight for us
it's the amount of deals so that's
pretty easy thank you for asking me a
very a very easy question i'm giving you
all the easy ones yes so the actual
official webster
definition of volume is the quantity or
amount of space occupied uh but i think
when we do think about sales and volume
i think traditionally we do think um you
know more around
number right number of leads number of
pitches
number of closed ones number of
customers
um and things of that nature but
something that we've learned
over time is is to think
a little bit differently about volume
and here is a couple of insights that we
that we think might work
so when thinking about volume uh we
actually like to focus on two things the
first is the how
and the second is the who um so when i
think you think about the how you know
how are we getting volume right how are
we getting clients
where are our leads coming from
you know which sources are the most
profitable for our business um i think
you know historically
you know on sales teams that i've worked
with it's it's very easy for us to think
okay we need to build an sdr team a
sales development team um you know
people who are cold calling they're
hitting the phones they're trying to get
as many outbound
opportunities as possible
to really drive the volume and make sure
that we have
you know the revenue at the end of the
day
um i think that an important learning
for us has been you know yes we should
focus on our um our leads and where
we're getting them
but are there other areas within those
lead sources that we can actually um you
know uh uh you know drive more
efficiently so for instance you know do
we have an sdr team who is outbounding
um but do we also are we also supporting
our inbound you know lead channels um
you know do we have a marketing team who
is super focused on uh brand awareness
product awareness um who you know runs a
a web form where people who are
interested in our business can actually
come to the forum and and talk to us
um so i think thinking through you know
hey our sdr team is going to
you know their their goal is five
opportunities a week with a 30 win rate
you know hypothetically
but other lead sources could actually
have a better win rate um so something
that we challenge ourselves day to day
uh actually month to month is just
looking at where we're getting um and
how we're getting leads
uh to truly impact you know the volume
uh i think the second area would be who
um so once you think about how we're
getting volume uh thinking about who
makes up our volume right
and fair i'd hinted at this from a
compensation point of view but when i
think you think about volume really
thinking about you know your revenue
right who makes up our revenue is it a
bunch of existing clients is it people
who have been spending with us three
years at a time
or is our team just really good at
getting people to
you know spend in the first month and
then they they leave for whatever reason
um and i think something really
interesting when you think about who
makes up your revenue
is if you know hypothetically you're
focusing on both you know your your
acquisition accounts so people that you
actually acquire you know this month um
you know having a goal for that
but also focusing on people who you know
were onboarded last month making sure
they're spending this month and the next
month and the following month
really does help maximize your volume um
and really kind of drive uh up your
numbers uh when you think about both
leads and uh revenue
all right so the last and final is
velocity
uh fair what do you think velocity means
how quickly can you can you close a deal
and i was actually surprised uh
it was it was actually chosen as the
second most important v with 29 of the
respondents so people think this is
important
yeah i i personally love this one i
think that um you know i think we both
do as an smb business we're always
looking to go quick
right uh you know we we focused really
hard on acquiring um and keeping our our
clients but we our teams spread across
so many clients um and so many verticals
that you know thinking about how we can
we can speed up is something that is
super important to us so i love that
people are are excited about this one
um so the definition of velocity
obviously is speed um but i think when
we think about velocity um
you know we we like to think about about
two things
um so in order to
improve or quicken your your sales um
you know both the seller and the process
you kind of need to drill into them so
uh thinking about the seller uh point of
view from velocity i think is really
important
um you know
do your sellers um you know are they are
they working efficiently
and are they pitching well right so
do they have their pitches perfected
do they not know their top potential
objections
do they know how to handle those
objections on a phone you know right a
seller here's an objection right on the
line they're gonna they're gonna handle
it immediately as opposed to going back
um you know and answering that objection
a day or two later
um you know how quickly are they closing
deals
and can we actually optimize you know
the sales process
and the salesmanship of our team
um to make sure that we're speeding up
their their their projections
uh and then i think the second is you
think about the process so i remember
the seller you know i always had to
think about my sales skills um and and
what works at closing deals but i also
had all these back-end processes right
um and so kind of thinking about those
two hand-in-hand really has helped us
improve our velocity
um and just kind of thinking through you
know you have a potential buyer for
instance right um that potential buyer
from a sales perspective is going to be
pitched probably multiple times right
you have a couple calls you have to you
know discover you know what their needs
are then you have to actually pitch them
the product um then you have to talk to
them about you know the the the pricing
and things of that nature so that
potential buyer goes through a couple
different pitches and and they probably
have a couple different objections right
um at the same time as a seller you know
once you get off your first call you
have to go do some sort of process on
the back end right there's there's all
these kind of processes that go into
essentially driving the revenue
so something that we have challenged
ourselves and me specifically and in my
role as sales enablement is how can we
work towards both of these
um and kind of get rid of of you know a
process or an objection
or a part of the pitch that maybe they
could have handled on the beginning
of that sales cycle to really drive
revenue
quicker
and decrease the amount of effort that
our sellers put in so at the end of the
day some of the best sales teams that
i've seen personally especially coming
from the sales side is like you know in
a weekly meeting um you know is the
manager asking the sellers what their
top objections were for the week right
um and the sales team is working through
those objections in real time
because objections change and they're
probably the hardest thing that you'll
you'll have to go through as a seller um
so you know kind of thinking through
objections and how sellers can just
immediately respond and get it out of
the way can actually increase your your
velocity um
so that is basically
all four of the v's summed up uh fair if
you want to touch on the takeaways i
think we can then open the questions
sure so i'm talking about velocity i'll
i'll i'll go very quick uh if we can
also open the poll again so we're going
to answer the same question again and
we'll see if there was any any
difference between what you consider to
be the most important v the takeaways
are measure your v's
uh
optimize each v individually and in
parallel one of the mistakes i made was
every quarter i was focusing in one of
the v's only and it's truly a trade-off
and maybe you're prioritizing one of the
v's because you think that's the right
time for you to do that so in q1 you're
going to go all in to volume and that's
fine but as long as it's intentional and
you're doing that on purpose so what is
your strategy for all the v's and maybe
you have different timings for when you
want to prioritize them but my
recommendation is you should really have
a strategy for for how to optimize them
individually and in parallel
and last but not least but i think if
you're able to optimize your fees you'll
you'll be you'll be very proud about the
sales machine the whale oiled sales
machine you're building and you'll be
creating a team that is is future proof
it's it's sustainable and um a phrase i
love is uh you'll actually have
predictable revenue
by optimizing the four v's
so
value is still considered number one 57
number two velocity which was also the
second one in the beginning but actually
volume is now more important than it was
a couple of minutes ago so that's
interesting so
though uh can we you did a good job of
of of pitching the importance of of
volume that was the i mean that was the
i think it's the lead sources i think
that was what it was because that was
something we were not thinking about but
it's super super important
absolutely and and these are our
contacts i think the easiest way to
reach us is is linkedin just look for us
and kind of send us a message we'd love
to have the conversation keep the
conversation going over the over the
next couple of
weeks months and even years
uh and and hopefully we have a couple of
minutes for questions would love to
answer any potential questions any of
you might have
we do have some questions that came
through so feel free to uh run through
them
so let me start um
wow how would you prioritize the v's ken
do you want to start answering this one
uh yes i
i i think that fair you had a good point
in the the end um around trying to
prioritize potentially
where your business i think is
struggling the most but
keeping in mind that they all flow
together right um if you don't have the
volume
you don't have the variety right and so
i think thinking about
where the business is struggling first
and foremost
and prioritizing that way
but also kind of mapping
specific for your organization
how
they all play with each other
and which ones you know need to
influence the other in order to truly
drive the impact
there
perfect nothing to add there uh let me
try to answer one question here
what v do you find the hardest to crack
i think velocity for me is is a tricky
one at the end of the day we are an smb
team so we are expected to to scale
quicker than our enterprise team so
we're expected to sell faster
but at the end of the day i mean the
client has less budget but
most of the questions being asked are
kind of the same
maybe the enterprise
prospect has a longer
a buying time they have different teams
that need to approve etc but i would i
would love for us to have a
four times quicker uh um
closing uh uh time period than our
enterprise team and we're not there yet
so that's been a very tricky one for us
to be able to optimize
let me let me choose one more
uh
platforms used to track and measure all
of this data
ken do you want to talk about uh a
couple of different platforms
that being use
uh uh to track all of this
yeah a uh
the biggest question and i think it's uh
data is great right um but we have a lot
of it and there's uh a lot of times
really yeah
it can be anywhere or anything i think
number one resource your crm um i think
that it really relies on um the sellers
to
you know accurately update their crm but
there are insights that you can drill in
really quickly right so your crm you
know how quick did a stage move um or
you know how quick was that sales cycle
you know start to end date
um what products were pitched what deal
value was pitched i think majority of
what we were discussing was through our
crm um but there's other things right
it's like in the pitching that they're
doing
um maybe on an objection handling doc
that you have
um you know how can we quantify that um
i think is
is up in the air uh we've we've we're
you know our google company we love our
google sheets we love we love our google
uh products so
uh i would say number one should be your
crm uh first and foremost and then
getting tricky with the others
[Music]
you